The Empire Agent
Now that we have our listener running
and our stager prepared,
we will need to deploy
an agent on the victim.
An agent is simply the final payload
retrieved by the stager,
and it allows us to execute commands
and interact with the system.
The stager deletes itself
and exits once it finishes execution.
Once the agent is operational
on the target,
it will set up an AES-encrypted
communication channel with the listener
using the data portion of the HTTP GET
and POST requests.
To deploy our agent, we need to copy the
launcher.bat script
to the Windows 10 workstation
and execute it from a command prompt.
We’ll start by setting up a
python webserver listening on port 8000.
Then we’ll connect to the
Windows 10 client via remote desktop.
And we’ll use a powershell one-liner
to download the
batch file from our Kali machine.
Finally, we can run the batch script.
Once we run the script,
our command prompt closes,
which is expected behavior.
Let’s switch back to Empire.
Back in Empire, we see that we have
received the initial agent call.
Next, we can use the agents command
to display all active agents.
Now, we can use interact
followed by the agent name
to interact with our agent
and execute commands.
Let’s run sysinfo
to retrieve information
about the compromised host.
Note that the command
does not return immediately.
This delay is caused by
the DefaultDelay parameter,
which is currently set to the default value of five seconds.
The help command shows
all available commands.
These include commands such as upload,
download, and exit,
which are self-explanatory.
In addition, we can use shell
to execute a command and spawn
to create an additional agent on the same host.
As with a meterpreter payload,
Empire allows us to migrate
our payload into a different process.
We can do that by first using
ps to view all running processes.
Once we choose our target process,
we’ll migrate the process with psinject,
including the name of the listener
and the process ID as
our command arguments.
It is important to note that,
unlike the migration feature
of the meterpreter payload,
once the process migration is completed,
the original Empire agent
remains active
and we have to manually switch to the
newly created one.